Add documentation and notebook example for Prune API (#1070)
openvinotoolkit/datumaro: docs/source/docs/command-reference/context_free/prune.md

# Prune

## Prune Dataset

> This command prune dataset to extract representative subset of the entire dataset. You can effectively handle large-scale dataset having redundancy through this command. The result consists of a representative and manageable subset.

Reviewer: typo: `prunes`

Prune supports various methodology.
- Randomized
- Hash-based
- Clustering-based

> `Randomized` approach is based on the most fundamental form of randomness that we are familiar with, where data is selected randomly from the dataset. `Hash-based` approach operates on hash basis like [Explorer](./explorer.md). The default model for calculating hash is CLIP, which could support both image and text modality. Supported model format is Openvino IR and those are uploaded in [openvinotoolkit storage](https://storage.openvinotoolkit.org/repositories/datumaro/models/). `Clustering-based` approach is based on clustering to cover unsupervised dataset either.  We compute hashes for the images in the dataset or utilize label data to perform clustering.

Reviewer: typo: `OpenVINO`
double spaces between `either. We`

By default, datasets are updated in-place. The `-o/--output-dir` option can be used to specify another output directory. When updating in-place, use the `--overwirte` parameter (in-place updates fail by default to prevent data loss), unless a project target is modified.

The current project (`-p/--project`) is also used as a context for plugins, so it can be useful for datasest paths having custom formats. When not specified, the current project's working tree is used.

The command can be applied to a dataset or a project build target, a stage or the combined `project` target, in which case all the project targets will be affected. A build tree stage will be recorded if `--stage` is enable.

Usage:
```
datum prune [TARGET] -m METHOD [-r RATIO] [-h/--hash-type HASH_TYPE]
            [-m MODEL] [-p PROJECT_DIR] [-o DST_DIR] [--overwrite]
```

Parameters:
- `<target>` (string) - Target [dataset revpath](../../user-manual/how_to_use_datumaro.md#dataset-path-concepts).
    By default, prints info about the joined `project` dataset.
- `-m, --method` (string) - Prune method name (default: random).
- `-r, --ratio` (float) - Number how much you want to remain among dataset (default: 0.5).

> - `--hash-type` (string) - Hash type based for clustering of `query_clust` (default: image hash).

Reviewer: Could you provide the available types for `--hash-type` here?

- `-p, --project` (string) - Directory of the project to operate on (default: current directory).
- `-o, --output-dir` (string) - Output directory. Can be omitted for main project targets (i.e. data sources and the `project`  target, but not intermediate stages) and dataset targets. If not specified, the results will be saved inplace.
- `--overwrite` - Allows to overwrite existing files in the output directory, when it is specified and is not empty.

> - `--stage` (bool) - Include this action as a project build step.
>     If true, this operation will be saved in the project build tree, allowing to reproduce the resulting dataset later.
>     Applicable only to main project targets (i.e. data sources and the `project` target, but not intermediate stages). Enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

There is no `stage` argument in `src/datumaro/cli/commands/prune.py`

```console
datum prune -m centroid -r 0.8 -p </path/to/project/>
```
![centroid](../../../../images/centroid.png)

#### `query_clust`
When clustering the entire dataset, set the representative query for each label as the center of the cluster. The representative query is calculated through image or text hash, and one representative query is set for each label. It supports the approach of randomly selecting one item per label and choosing it as the representative query. In the generated clusters, random selection of items is performed according to the desired ratio.
```console
datum prune -m query_clust -h img -r 0.8 -p </path/to/project/>
```

```console
datum prune -m query_clust -h txt -r 0.8 -p </path/to/project/>
```
![query_clust](../../../../images/query_clust.png)

#### `entropy`
After clustering the entire dataset, items are selected within each cluster based on the desired ratio, considering the entropy of labels.
```console
datum prune -m entropy -r 0.8 -p </path/to/project/>
```
![entropy](../../../../images/entropy.png)

#### `ndr`

> Removes near-duplicated images in subset. You could check detail for this method in [ndr](./transform.md#ndr).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Remove near-duplicated images in each subset. You could check detail for this method in [ndr](./transform.md#ndr).
```

Is it correct "in each subset" ?

Author: `ndr` applied to each subset. So I updated this as you suggested.

> We set `num_cut` to a size that the ratio that will be left in the entire dataset.

Reviewer 2: What is `num_cut`? It seems not configurable by users.

Author: This parameter is used in `ndr`. So I tried to explain `num_cut` is set as a size that the ratio will be left in the entire dataset.

Reviewer 2: `num_cut` seems the number of items remaining after NDR.

https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro/blob/0ec221609f28584bef656a67aa55cc73498459fc/src/datumaro/plugins/ndr.py#L37-L38

However, it seems that our readers do not need to know about this. Because they already know they can use 'ratio' to scale the pruned dataset. It just seems adding some confusing.

Author: I see. I will remove this line. Thank you for suggestion.
